Hi guys.
I apologize if this slide has a lot of information on it but this is quite a tedious subject here and
I'm trying to make it as visual as possible in this lab.
This is very key to remember all of this information and the best way to do that I think is to do it
visually by having the combination of a diagram.
We have some of these bullet points as well as going into the console and actually performing each of
these operations so that we can contextualize it and really understand and remember all this information.
So before we get started we're going to go through all of these.
But before we get started let's head over to the console and I'm in the key management service and what
I've done is I've created myself a customer key so you remember we've got customer managed keys in KMS
and what that actually means and you'll see.
And by the way this is a regional service.
I note that I'm in Sydney here.
So if I try to use this key in another region well I won't even find it.
So we create a key here and you just create a name for this key.
So you just call it you know kms whatever you want to call it.
And then there's other advanced options here you can say a couple of things.
So you can have an external key that means you're importing your two 256 bit key
from your key management infrastructure.
So if your company has its own public key infrastructure you can take your keys and bring them into
AWS.
You can also use a custom key store such as cloudHSM and cloudhsm is an AWS service
which we'll cover in the security section in this course.
So back onto a message.
So this means that KMS actually comes up with key material and we're just going to leave that and
then you can just click on Next optionally add tags and then what you need to do is choose your key
administrators.
So for the one that I have I just chose myself and I'm not allowed to delete the key as well.
And then you need to define who's able to use the key in this case.
Just having my own account is fine I don't need to add a role for this obviously if you had multiple
people who you wanted to use this you'd probably create a row and then you can use groups or attach
roles directly in order to be able to use these permissions.
So you just go next and it will actually create and it's all for a policy here so it can figure out
the policy for you based on what you've just chosen and then you click finish.
So I've already got a key here and one of the other things I've done.
If you go into your key and you pop down to the bottom here you can see other AWS accounts and I've
actually added another accounts in so you just click add another account and you put in the account
number and click save changes and then that means that that account is now able to use this key and
you'll see why that's important in this lab later on so let's get back to the diagram.
So the first option here is just taken a snapshot.
So you've got your UBS volume and you want to take a snapshot of it decrypt the encryption State of
the volume is retained.
So if it's encrypted your snapshots encrypted if it's unencrypted your snapshots unencrypted and it's
going to be in the same region.
So let's head over and let's go to volumes and let's just go to create snapshot.
And you can see it says not encrypted and that's there's no option to change that.
And that's because this is an unencrypted volume and you can't change the encryption state of your snapshot.
You also can't change the region.
You can add tags but that's about it and you can give it a description.
So I'm just gonna cancel out of the
the next option is to take an unencrypted snapshot and copy the snapshot.
And in this case you can encrypt it and you can change regions.
So let's go back and we've got some snapshots here.
These are all unencrypted snapshots.
So let's just take this data volume here and under description we can see it's not encrypted.
So we can go copy we can choose a region obviously this is any region.
In this case I'm just going to leave it where it is and I'm going to give it a descriptive description.
So data volume you can see for encryption and now I can encrypted it so I can choose to encrypt the
volume and I can choose my key.
So we've got this IWC BSG here.
So this is the default and you can also see my customer KMS in this case I'm going to leave
the default and that's completed now.
So let's just go up and have a look and sure enough we can see it's encrypted and that's the KMS
key.
So we know that that's an encrypted volume
so the next thing is to take an unencrypted snapshot and try to volume out of it.
And in this case you can optionally enable encryption and you can change the availability zone not the
region but the availability zone.
So let's go back and take one of the unencrypted snapshots this case let's try take a root volume and
we can try to create a volume from that and in this case you can change the volume type.
You can change the size you can change the availability zone and then we can say well let's encrypt
this one.
And again we could choose the AWS KMS key and click rate volume and it's as simple as that.
So the next activity is to take an unencrypted snapshot and create an I.M. eyes.
Remember an image and the AMI can then be used to launch instances.
So in this case you take an unencrypted snapshot and create an AMI.
You can't change the encryption status and AMI is actually backed by a snapshot.
So it's not actually got the data within the AMI.
The AMI actually includes the block the voice mappings the launch permissions and the template for the
reef volume.
But it doesn't actually contain the data itself.
It always is backed off of the snapshot and therefore you can't change the encryption state because
the snapshot is even encrypted or unencrypted.
So in this case we have an unencrypted snapshot.
And that means the AMI we create can be shared with other accounts and it can be shared publicly.
So let's go back and do this.
So we'll go and take a snapshot and or choose or select a snapshot.
In this case when we take this unencrypted root volume and let's create an image from that snapshot
and we'll just call this my
unencrypted AMI.
And so you can see a few options here.
But the encryption status is not something you can change.
And as you'll notice you can't even change the region that you put this in.
So there's no option there or you can do is give it a name sheet change.
Some of these parameters and you can adjust the volume size and type but you can't change encryption
status so let's click Create we now go up to AMI we've got our unencrypted AMI and we can go to modify
permissions and we can choose this image is currently and we change it to public and that's now a public
image.
Another thing we can do is share the AMI with another account to do that we need to go back in and we
have to make it private first
and we have to hit refresh otherwise it often doesn't change and then we need to add in the account
number of the other account and we need to create the we need to select the add create volume for permissions
to enable that account to create volumes from the snapshots that this AMIs backed by.
So we click on Save and on another browser and a private window.
I have a separate account which is also selected into Sydney here within the Sydney region.
And what we need to do now is in this offshore account where we've just shared this AMI we have to change
to private images and now we can see the AMI that we shared from this account.
The DCC labs account so we could then launch an instance from that image and if we go through to storage
you'd see that you know the the storage is is essentially the same.
You could then add encryption you could then change the volume size and the volume type.
So that's a share a snapshot between accounts.
So what we're going to do now is we're just going to remove that capability.
So what we're going to do now is copy an encrypted snapshot.
In this case the copy is still an encrypted snapshot.
So it's not like an unencrypted snapshot where you can optionally enable encryption with an encrypted
snapshot.
It's still going to be encrypted but what you can do is change the encryption key and you can also change
regions.
So let's head over and go to snapshots and what we're going to do is create a copy.
And now we can see that we can change regions so we can choose Singapore if we like or any other region.
And this is going to be a copy.
And then as you can see you can't change the encryption status.
It's encrypted and that's greyed.
So I can't change that box but I can change the key.
So I could remove this and then I could come down and say well in this case I want this to be using
my customer key and click copy so we've changed the key that's used to encrypt it but we can't unencrypted
and we can change the region as well.
That option say the next task is to take an encrypted snapshot and create an encrypted volume.
So in this case again you can change the encryption key and you can change the availability zone not
the region because now we're talking about creating a volume.
So the snapshot is on S3 but the volume is going to be within an availability zone.
So the snapshot is going to be within a region and then the volume is going to be within an availability
zone.
So we can't change the region but we can change the availability zone that the destination volume is
created in.
So let's go back and take our encrypted snapshot and create a volume and in this case we just want to
change to 2C.
And again you can see that I can quite easily change my encryption key and create volume and now that
volumes in a different availability zone to where the original volume was that the snapshot came from.
So the next task then is to take an encrypted snapshot and make an encrypted AMI from it.
And in this case the snapshots remain encrypted.
So the the volumes will be encrypted.
You can't share it with other accounts unless you're using the customer key in case if you're doing
that using the AWS managed CMK you can't share that.
So that's very important.
And you cannot share it publicly in any circumstance.
So let's go and take one of our encrypted snapshots and let's create an image from it.
And we're just going to call this encrypted ... so you can see because it's the snapshot that it's
using is encrypted.
There's no option to change that.
So we create the encrypted ...
and now if we go into permissions and try and hit public and we get an error saying encrypted snapshots
can't be shared publicly.
The same will happen if we go to modify image permissions and we try to add in an account
snapshots encrypted with the AWS managed CMK can't be shared.
So that's the key here.
So let's go back and we created another snapshot that was encrypted but with a different key.
So here you can see it's encrypted but it's encrypted with the customer key.
So the customer CMK that came from here from KMS that we created.
So we created a customer managed key so let's create an image from this one.
So in this case it's gonna be encrypted with CMK key.
And so the image is still encrypted and that's going AMIs and in this case let's try to modify
these permissions.
Now can we make it public.
No absolutely not.
But we can change the account or add permissions for another account to be able to create volumes from
this EMI.
So let's click on Save and that works.
So now if we head back to our other account and theirs are encrypted AMI.
So now we should be able to launch an instance from this.
We would also be able to copy it and change the encryption status.
So if we hit launch go free to storage there we go we can see that we have encryption enabled.
And again we could go in here and this is a different account so you're seeing different options but
we could then go and choose a different encryption key and launch that instance.
So the next one is to look at copying and encrypt AMI.
And in this case the encryption status remains the same.
But you can change regions.
So that's simply a case of saying well here's an encrypted AMI want to copy it.
What can I do.
Well I can't change the encryption status despite the fact that it looks like there's an option here.
You can't actually change their status without option here but you can change the region.
So I could then just say well let's copy this to Mumbai and the next one is taking in encrypted AMI
and launching an EC2 instance we actually quickly looked at this before.
So you take your encrypted AMI you launch you easy to instance and then when you go to storage you have
the option to change the key.
And clearly you can select your availability zone when you launch an instance as well so that's not
a problem even and then the very last one here is to take an unencrypted AMI and launch an EC2 instance.
And in this case you can change the encryption state as well as the easy.
So if you go back to our unencrypted AMI we can launch we can go through to storage and we can.
This is not encrypted and then we can enable encryption
so that's it.
There's a lot of information there but hopefully you'll start to contextualize it and understand.
Best thing to do is to get into the console and actually just run through and practice all of these
different operations.
And that's the best way to really understand it and remember it.